doc/source/contributor/index.rst, before:

Contributing to the OpenStack SDK
=================================

This section of documentation pertains to those who wish to contribute to the
development of this SDK. If you're looking for documentation on how to use
the SDK to build applications, please see the `user <../user>`_ section.

About the Project
-----------------

The OpenStack SDK is a OpenStack project aimed at providing a complete
software development kit for the programs which make up the OpenStack
community. It is a set of Python-based libraries, documentation, examples,
and tools released under the Apache 2 license.

Contribution Mechanics
----------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   contributing

Contacting the Developers
-------------------------

IRC
***

The developers of this project are available in the
`#openstack-sdks <http://webchat.freenode.net?channels=%23openstack-sdks>`_
channel on Freenode. This channel includes conversation on SDKs and tools
within the general OpenStack community, including OpenStackClient as well
as occasional talk about SDKs created for languages outside of Python.

Email
*****

The `openstack-dev <mailto:openstack-dev@openstack.org?subject=[sdk]%20Question%20about%20openstacksdk>`_
mailing list fields questions of all types on OpenStack. Using the
``[sdk]`` filter to begin your email subject will ensure
that the message gets to SDK developers.

Coding Standards
----------------

We are a bit stricter than usual in the coding standards department. It's a
good idea to read through the :doc:`coding <coding>` section.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   coding

Development Environment
-----------------------

The first step towards contributing code and documentation is to setup your
development environment. We use a pretty standard setup, but it is fully
documented in our :doc:`setup <setup>` section.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   setup

Testing
-------

The project contains three test packages, one for unit tests, one for
functional tests and one for examples tests. The ``openstack.tests.unit``
package tests the SDK's features in isolation. The
``openstack.tests.functional`` and ``openstack.tests.examples`` packages test
the SDK's features and examples against an OpenStack cloud.

.. toctree::

   testing

Project Layout
--------------

The project contains a top-level ``openstack`` package, which houses several
modules that form the foundation upon which each service's API is built on.
Under the ``openstack`` package are packages for each of those services,
such as ``openstack.compute``.

.. toctree::

   layout

Adding Features
---------------

Does this SDK not do what you need it to do? Is it missing a service? Are you
a developer on another project who wants to add their service? You're in the
right place. Below are examples of how to add new features to the
OpenStack SDK.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   create/resource

.. TODO(briancurtin): document how to create a proxy
.. TODO(briancurtin): document how to create auth plugins

Commit message:

slightly rework docs
- add DeH user guides
- fix wrong menu structure
- other minor fixes

doc/source/contributor/index.rst, after:

Contributing to the OTC Extensions
==================================

This section of documentation pertains to those who wish to contribute to the
development of this project. If you're looking for documentation on how to use
the SDK to build applications, please see the `user <../user>`_ section.


Contribution Mechanics
----------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   contributing

Contacting the Developers
-------------------------

GitHub
******

Currently no official communication other than GitHub is available

Email
*****

???

Coding Standards
----------------

We are a bit stricter than usual in the coding standards department. It's a
good idea to read through the :doc:`coding <coding>` section.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   coding

Development Environment
-----------------------

The first step towards contributing code and documentation is to setup your
development environment. We use a pretty standard setup, but it is fully
documented in our :doc:`setup <setup>` section.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   setup

Testing
-------

The project contains three test packages, one for unit tests, one for
functional tests and one for examples tests. The ``openstack.tests.unit``
package tests the SDK's features in isolation. The
``openstack.tests.functional`` and ``openstack.tests.examples`` packages test
the SDK's features and examples against an OpenStack cloud.

.. toctree::

   testing

Project Layout
--------------

The project contains a top-level ``openstack`` package, which houses several
modules that form the foundation upon which each service's API is built on.
Under the ``openstack`` package are packages for each of those services,
such as ``openstack.compute``.

.. toctree::

   layout

Adding Features
---------------

Does this SDK not do what you need it to do? Is it missing a service? Are you
a developer on another project who wants to add their service? You're in the
right place. Below are examples of how to add new features to the
OpenStack SDK.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   create/resource

.. TODO(briancurtin): document how to create a proxy
.. TODO(briancurtin): document how to create auth plugins
