doc/source/user/index.rst, before:

Getting started with the OTCExtensions SDK
==========================================

Please note that OTCExtensions provides an extension to the OpenStackSDK.
Please refer to it's documentation for the details <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/>


Installation
------------

The OTCExtensions SDK is available on
`GitHub <https://github.com/OpenTelekomCloud/python-otcextensions.git>`_.
To install it, use ``pip``::

   $ pip install otcextensions

.. _user_guides:

User Guides
-----------

These guides walk you through how to make use of the libraries we provide
to work with each OpenStack service. If you're looking for a cookbook
approach, this is where you'll want to begin.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Plain-simple connect to OTC <guides/connect_otc>
   Configuration <config/index>
   Connect to an OpenStack Cloud Using a Config File <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/connect_from_config>
   Using Cloud Abstration Layer <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/usage>
   Logging <guides/logging>
   Microversions <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/microversions>
   Block Storage <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/block_storage>
   Compute <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/compute>
   Identity <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/identity>
   Image <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/image>
   Key Manager <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/key_manager>
   Message <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/message>
   Network <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/network>
   Object Store <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/object_store>
   Orchestration <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/orchestration>
   RDS <guides/rds>
   OBS <guides/obs>
   AutoScaling <guides/auto_scaling>
   Volume Backup <guides/volume_backup>
   Dedicated Host <guides/deh>

API Documentation
-----------------

OpenStackSDK documentation is available under <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/index.html#api-documentation>


Service APIs are exposed through a two-layered approach. The classes
exposed through our `Connection Interface`_ are
the place to start if you're an application developer consuming an OpenStack
cloud. The `Resource Interface`_ is the layer upon which the
`Connection Interface`_ is built, with methods on `Service Proxies`_ accepting
and returning :class:`~openstack.resource.Resource` objects.

The Cloud Abstraction layer has a data model.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   model

Connection Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A :class:`~openstack.connection.Connection` instance maintains your cloud
config, session and authentication information providing you with a set of
higher-level interfaces to work with OpenStack services.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   connection

Once you have a :class:`~openstack.connection.Connection` instance, services
are accessed through instances of :class:`~openstack.proxy.Proxy` or
subclasses of it that exist as attributes on the
:class:`~openstack.connection.Connection`.

.. autoclass:: openstack.proxy.Proxy
   :members:

.. _service-proxies:

Service Proxies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following service proxies exist on the
:class:`~openstack.connection.Connection`. The service proxies are all always
present on the :class:`~openstack.connection.Connection` object, but the
combination of your ``CloudRegion`` and the catalog of the cloud in question
control which services can be used.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Block Storage <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/block_storage>
   Compute <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/compute>
   Database <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/database>
   Identity v2 <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/identity_v2>
   Identity v3 <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/identity_v3>
   Image v1 <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/image_v1>
   Image v2 <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/image_v2>
   Key Manager <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/key_manager>
   Load Balancer <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/load_balancer_v2>
   Message v2 <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/message_v2>
   Network <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/network>
   Object Store <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/object_store>
   Orchestration <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/orchestration>
   Workflow <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/workflow>
   Anti DDoS Service <proxies/anti_ddos>
   AutoScaling Service <proxies/auto_scaling>
   Cloud Container Engine v1<proxies/cce_v1>
   Cloud Container Engine v2<proxies/cce_v3>
   Cloud Trace Service <proxies/cts>
   Distributed Cache Service <proxies/dcs>
   Dedicated Host Service <proxies/deh>
   Distributed Message Service <proxies/dms>
   DNS Service <proxies/dns>
   Key Management Service <proxies/kms>
   Object Block Storage <proxies/obs>
   Volume Backup Service <proxies/volume_backup>
   Relational Database Service RDS V1 <proxies/rds_v1>
   Relational Database Service RDS V3 <proxies/rds_v3>

Resource Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The *Resource* layer is a lower-level interface to
communicate with OpenStack services. While the classes exposed by the
`Service Proxies`_ build a convenience layer on top of
this, :class:`~openstack.resource.Resource` objects can be
used directly. However, the most common usage of this layer is in receiving
an object from a class in the `Connection Interface_`, modifying it, and
sending it back to the `Service Proxies`_ layer, such as to update a resource
on the server.

The following services have exposed :class:`~openstack.resource.Resource`
classes.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Baremetal <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/baremetal/index>
   Block Storage <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/block_storage/index>
   Clustering <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/clustering/index>
   Compute <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/compute/index>
   Database <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/database/index>
   Identity <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/identity/index>
   Image <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/image/index>
   Key Management <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/key_manager/index>
   Load Balancer <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/load_balancer/index>
   Network <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/network/index>
   Orchestration <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/orchestration/index>
   Object Store <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/object_store/index>
   Workflow <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/workflow/index>
   Anti DDoS Service <resources/anti_ddos/index>
   AutoScaling Service <resources/auto_scaling/index>
   DNS Service <resources/dns/index>
   Cloud Container Engine <resources/cce/index>
   Cloud Trace Service <resources/cts/index>
   Distributed Cache Service <resources/dcs/index>
   Dedicated Host Service <resources/deh/index>
   Distributed Message Service <resources/dms/index>
   Key Management Service <resources/kms/index>
   Object Block Storage <resources/obs/index>
   RDS <resources/rds/index>

Low-Level Classes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following classes are not commonly used by application developers,
but are used to construct applications to talk to OpenStack APIs. Typically
these parts are managed through the `Connection Interface`_, but their use
can be customized.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   resource
   utils

Presentations
=============

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   multi-cloud-demo

Commit message:

adds more structure to the documentation and provides a history

doc/source/user/index.rst, after:

Getting started with the OTCExtensions SDK
==========================================

The SDK/OTCE contain an abstraction interface layer. Clouds can do many
things, but there are probably only about 10 of them that most people
care about with any regularity.

If you want to do complicated things, the per-service oriented
portions of the SDK are for you.

However, if what you want is to be able to write an application that
talks to clouds no matter what crazy choices the deployer has made in
an attempt to be more hipster than their self-entitled narcissist
peers, then the Cloud Abstraction layer is for you.



Please note that OTCExtensions provides an extension to the OpenStackSDK.
Please refer to it's documentation for the details <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/>


Installation
------------

The OTCExtensions SDK is available on
`GitHub <https://github.com/OpenTelekomCloud/python-otcextensions.git>`_.
To install it, use ``pip``::

   $ pip install otcextensions

.. _user_guides:

User Guides
-----------

These guides walk you through how to make use of the libraries we provide
to work with each OpenStack service. If you're looking for a cookbook
approach, this is where you'll want to begin.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Plain-simple connect to OTC <guides/connect_otc>
   Configuration <config/index>
   Connect to an OpenStack Cloud Using a Config File <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/connect_from_config>
   Using Cloud Abstration Layer <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/usage>
   Logging <guides/logging>
   Microversions <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/microversions>
   Block Storage <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/block_storage>
   Compute <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/compute>
   Identity <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/identity>
   Image <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/image>
   Key Manager <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/key_manager>
   Message <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/message>
   Network <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/network>
   Object Store <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/object_store>
   Orchestration <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/guides/orchestration>
   RDS <guides/rds>
   OBS <guides/obs>
   AutoScaling <guides/auto_scaling>
   Volume Backup <guides/volume_backup>
   Dedicated Host <guides/deh>

API Documentation
-----------------

OpenStackSDK documentation is available under <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/index.html#api-documentation>


Service APIs are exposed through a two-layered approach. The classes
exposed through our `Connection Interface`_ are
the place to start if you're an application developer consuming an OpenStack
cloud. The `Resource Interface`_ is the layer upon which the
`Connection Interface`_ is built, with methods on `Service Proxies`_ accepting
and returning :class:`~openstack.resource.Resource` objects.

The Cloud Abstraction layer has a data model.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   model

Connection Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A :class:`~openstack.connection.Connection` instance maintains your cloud
config, session and authentication information providing you with a set of
higher-level interfaces to work with OpenStack services.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   connection

Once you have a :class:`~openstack.connection.Connection` instance, services
are accessed through instances of :class:`~openstack.proxy.Proxy` or
subclasses of it that exist as attributes on the
:class:`~openstack.connection.Connection`.

.. autoclass:: openstack.proxy.Proxy
   :members:

.. _service-proxies:

Service Proxies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following service proxies exist on the
:class:`~openstack.connection.Connection`. The service proxies are all always
present on the :class:`~openstack.connection.Connection` object, but the
combination of your ``CloudRegion`` and the catalog of the cloud in question
control which services can be used.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Block Storage <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/block_storage>
   Compute <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/compute>
   Database <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/database>
   Identity v2 <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/identity_v2>
   Identity v3 <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/identity_v3>
   Image v1 <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/image_v1>
   Image v2 <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/image_v2>
   Key Manager <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/key_manager>
   Load Balancer <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/load_balancer_v2>
   Message v2 <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/message_v2>
   Network <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/network>
   Object Store <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/object_store>
   Orchestration <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/orchestration>
   Workflow <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/proxies/workflow>
   Anti DDoS Service <proxies/anti_ddos>
   AutoScaling Service <proxies/auto_scaling>
   Cloud Container Engine v1<proxies/cce_v1>
   Cloud Container Engine v2<proxies/cce_v3>
   Cloud Trace Service <proxies/cts>
   Distributed Cache Service <proxies/dcs>
   Dedicated Host Service <proxies/deh>
   Distributed Message Service <proxies/dms>
   DNS Service <proxies/dns>
   Key Management Service <proxies/kms>
   Object Block Storage <proxies/obs>
   Volume Backup Service <proxies/volume_backup>
   Relational Database Service RDS V1 <proxies/rds_v1>
   Relational Database Service RDS V3 <proxies/rds_v3>

Resource Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The *Resource* layer is a lower-level interface to
communicate with OpenStack services. While the classes exposed by the
`Service Proxies`_ build a convenience layer on top of
this, :class:`~openstack.resource.Resource` objects can be
used directly. However, the most common usage of this layer is in receiving
an object from a class in the `Connection Interface_`, modifying it, and
sending it back to the `Service Proxies`_ layer, such as to update a resource
on the server.

The following services have exposed :class:`~openstack.resource.Resource`
classes.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Baremetal <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/baremetal/index>
   Block Storage <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/block_storage/index>
   Clustering <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/clustering/index>
   Compute <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/compute/index>
   Database <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/database/index>
   Identity <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/identity/index>
   Image <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/image/index>
   Key Management <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/key_manager/index>
   Load Balancer <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/load_balancer/index>
   Network <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/network/index>
   Orchestration <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/orchestration/index>
   Object Store <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/object_store/index>
   Workflow <https://docs.openstack.org/openstacksdk/latest/user/resources/workflow/index>
   Anti DDoS Service <resources/anti_ddos/index>
   AutoScaling Service <resources/auto_scaling/index>
   DNS Service <resources/dns/index>
   Cloud Container Engine <resources/cce/index>
   Cloud Trace Service <resources/cts/index>
   Distributed Cache Service <resources/dcs/index>
   Dedicated Host Service <resources/deh/index>
   Distributed Message Service <resources/dms/index>
   Key Management Service <resources/kms/index>
   Object Block Storage <resources/obs/index>
   RDS <resources/rds/index>

Low-Level Classes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following classes are not commonly used by application developers,
but are used to construct applications to talk to OpenStack APIs. Typically
these parts are managed through the `Connection Interface`_, but their use
can be customized.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   resource
   utils

Presentations
=============

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   multi-cloud-demo
